What is node.js 
Node.js is a runtime environment that I allows you to run javascript in the server. It uses chrome v8 javascript run engine. 

What is the difference between Node.js vs javascript

How does node.js work internally
V8 engine
The v8 engine executes Javascript code quickly 

Libuv Library 
Libuv handles background tasks like reading files, making API calls, or handling requests

Why is Node.js single-threaded
Node.js uses a single main thread, meaning it handles all requests in one flow instead of creating a new thread for every user.
Light-weight, super-Efficient 
-uses one main thread 
-handles many users using asynchronous processing 
-saves memory and increases speed

Why is Node.js popular today?
Node.js is popular because it makes development faster and simple. It's also very fast, easy to scale, and has thousands of pre-build libraries on npm. 

-one language is enough for everything 
-super fast and lightweight 
-Big community and npm support
-great for real-time apps

How to write a simple "Hello World" server in Node.js

const http = require('http');

const server = htt.createServer((req, res) => {
	res.writeHead(200, {'Content-Type': 'text/plain'});
	res.end('Hello World!');
});

server.listen(300, () =>{
	console.log('Server running at http://localhost:3000');
});

What is synchronous vs asynchronous programming?
Synchronous programming
Synchronous means doing one task at a time - the next task starts only after the previous one fisnishes.
Synchronous: reading one file then the next

Asynchronous Programming 
Asynchronous means doing multiple things at once - you don't wait for one task to finish before starting the next
Asynchronous: reading all files together without waiting. 


How does Node.js achieve asynchronous programing 
Nodes.js handles asynchronous programming using callbacks, promises, and asynchronous/await
Instructions to node JS to read a file to make a database call.
Node JS sends the task to the background and move on

What is the Event Loop and how does it manage request

What is callback hell and how can you avoid 
Callback hell happens when you write too many nested callback functions in your code - it looks messy and hard to understand 
To solve this problem : use Promises, async/await, break your code int smaller, simpler functions.

Intermediate 

What are promises in Node.js
Promises are better way to handle asynchronous operations in Node.js.
Instead of using callbacks that can get messy, promises make the code cleaner and easier to read.
A promise gives you the result later rather than blocking the main thread. 
When you make a network request the promise gets registered in the browser web API with a status of PENDING. 
When the request comes back, it could have one of the two states either resolve or reject.


How does async/await improve asynchronous code?
Asyn/await were introduced to make asynchronous code look and behave more like normal, synchronous code.
Instead of Channing .then() and .catch(), you can just use await to pause execution until a promise resolves.
-easy to read and debug, 
-avoid callback hell,
-handles async code in a more natural flow

What is package.json and why is it important
It stores important information about your app - like its name, version, dependencies, and scripts
-it keeps track of all npm packages your project uses.
-it allows you to run custom scripts (like npm start)

Name five build-in modules of Node.js
1. http - for creating web servers
2. Fs - for working with the file system
3. Path - for handling file and directory paths
4. Os - for system info like memory and CPU
5. Events - event-driven programming 


What is middleware in Node.js?
Middleware are functions that sit between the request and response cycle. They can check, modify, or even stop a request before it reaches the final route handler.
-Loggin: Records details of incoming requests for monitoring and debugging
-Authentication: verifies user identity before allowing access to protected routes
-Error Handling:  Catches and manages errors to prevent server crashes. 


What is module.exports and how it is used?
In Node.js each file is treated as a separate module. If you want to use functions or variables from one file in another, you use modules.export to share them. 

What is the difference between Express.js and Node.js
Node.js
Type - A runtime environment that lets Javascript run on the server.


